So we've made it.
We've navigated through the terminal.
We learned how to edit a file in Vim.
We learned how to edit our shell
configuration and kind of what shells are.
Now let's dive into I
won't say the meat and
potatoes because I feel
like it's a little bit.
Let's dive into the core of really
what we wanna do is we wana talk about
service today.
So let's understand what is the server,
and I'm gonna talk about cloud computing.
We're gonna talk about a VPS.
Let's talk about operating systems
which we just touched on a little bit.
And then we're gonna talk about SSH,
one of the coolest,
most important things you
probably don't know enough about.
And we're also gonna talk about hashing,
because you can't talk about SSH
without talking about hashing.
Alright so, what is a server?
You've all heard of it surely, it doesn't
matter if your first time using computer
you've been doing this for 50 years.
Everybody's heard of a server.
So, what is a server?
>> A program that is listening for inputs
that may or may not come over the network.
>> Yeah, I like that.
>> Or even a computer that hosts
an application that listens for inputs.
>> Yeah, I like that too.
There's a
>> Yeah, in the chat.
>> A computer that serves content,
it serves a request.
>> Yeah, everybody said the right answer.
That's all it does it serves requests.
That's it,
there's nothing magical about that.
It's more of a concept than anything.
But really, anything can be a server,
literally anything my phone, my computer.
If it's a computer, I can make it a server
because I can just make the computer
respond to some sort of
formulated requests.
However, when we think about servers,
we think, dedicated hardware and
there's a lot of reasons why
to have a dedicated hardware.
Servers run on different chipsets than
the one we use on our computers, and
that's for
a variety of reasons like virtualization,
which we'll talk about when
we get to cloud computing.
Efficiency, they're generally more
efficient than your home computers.
But that's why server chip can cost 1000s
of dollars versus that's how much my
entire computer costs.
Servers need to be
available 100% of the time.
So, yeah, in the next exercise,
we're gonna write a home
server here pretty simple.
We're gonna use Node and you'll say like,
why can't we just do that?
Why can't I build a web
page based off of that?
Well, what happens when you close your
laptop and you go home for the day?
Your webpage goes down,
probably not a good idea.
So, when we think servers we
think dedicated hardware,
it has to be available 100%
of the time to other devices.
These are kind of the rules of what
makes a server versus what's just my
machine responding to requests.
So for this one, this exercise,
we're gonna make a really simple server
receiving the call it simple server.
We're gonna use Node.JS, and
it's gonna be running on port 3000.
And if you're like, I don't know how
to make a server, Jem, don't worry,
we're gonna walk through
this one together.
I have all the code here.
And this is all the code you
need to create a server,
probably even less because of the console
log in there we don't need the port.
But so open vi create a file
called simple server.js.
And you can type all this out,
and then I will type it out and
then we're gonna learn how
to run the server itself.
We might need some homebrew, we might need
some Node.JS, but it's all part of the fun